# Magma-Certification

Sections
---|
[AGW Questions](#agw-questions)
[AGW Drag and Drop](#agw-drag-and-drop)
[Orc8r Questions](#orc8r-questions)
[Orc8r Drag and Drop](#orc8r-drag-and-drop)
[NMS Questions](#nms-questions)


### AGW Questions

Q: Once you have deployed your access gateway, what script should you run as a part of the post installation check?
- [ ] agw_install_check.sh
- [ ] check_agw_status.sh
- [ ] agw_post_install.sh
- [ ] Agw_overview.sh

Q: Which commands help diagnose managed eNB and the AGW connection?
- [ ] ping < eNB IP >
- [ ] sudo tcpdump sctp
- [ ] Sudo enodeb_cli.py get_all_status
- [ ] iosat -c
- [ ] None of the above

Q: What information do you need from the AGW to configure in Orc8r?
- [ ] hardware ID, challenge key
- [ ] gateway ID, boostraper certificate
- [ ] eNB and hardware key
- [ ] rootCA.pem and controller certificate

Q: To override the UE requested APN with a network specified APN what .yml file do you need to alter?
- [ ] /etc/magma/mme.yml
- [ ] /etc/magma/apn-config.yml
- [ ] /etc/magma/apn-setup.yml
- [ ] /etc/magma/mme-apn.yml

Q: What command will provide you with the local subscriber data?
- [ ] subscriber.py get IMSI < 15 digit IMSI >
- [ ] subscriber_cli.py get IMSI < 15 digit IMSI >
- [ ] IMSI.py get IMSI < 15 digit IMSI >
- [ ] local_subscriber.py get IMSI < 15 digit IMSI >

Q: Which file path will show the configuration of the AGW?
- [ ] /var/opt/magma/gateway-config.mconfig
- [ ] /var/opt/magma/
- [ ] /var/opt/magma/configs/gateway.mconfig
- [ ] /var/opt/magma/gateway.config

Q: What is the python script to validate the connection between your access gateway and the Orc8r?
- [ ] orc8r_connection.py
- [ ] agw_setup_check.sh
- [ ] checkin_cli.py
- [ ] agw_checkin.py

Q: What file would contain a log of all services running on the AGW?
- [ ] /var/log/syslog
- [ ] /var/log/mme.log
- [ ] /var/log/magma
- [ ] var/log/enodebd.log

Q: Which python command will you use to capture S1 AP signaling between the AGW and eNB?
- [ ] s1aptests/test.py
- [ ] s1ap/sctp.py
- [ ] sudo tcpdump -i any sctp -w /path
- [ ] sudo tcpdump -i any port 48080 -w /path

Q: There are no metrics showing in NMS, which two services in the AGW could this be related to?
- [ ] Magmad
- [ ] Sessiond
- [ ] Eventd
- [ ] Metricsd

Q: What is all the information you need to configure in control_proxy.yml?
- [ ] controller address/port, bootstrap address and port, Fluentd address and port, rootCA.pem certificate path
- [ ] Controller address/port, rootCA.pem certificate path
- [ ] Bootstrap address and port, Fluentd address and port, rootCA.pem certificate path
- [ ] rootCA.pem certificate path

Q: Which two of the following services will impact the users service while restarting an AGW not in stateless mode:
- [ ] magmad
- [ ] mme
- [ ] pipelined
- [ ] Eventd

Q: Select the correct set of steps to disable the DHCP service on your access gateway for the eNB:
- [ ] Network Management → Equipment → Gateways → Select the Gateway → Config → RAN → Edit → Disable eNodeB DHCP service
- [ ] Network Management → Traffic → Gateways → Select the Gateway → Config → RAN → Edit → Disable eNodeB DHCP service
- [ ] Network Management → Equipment → Orc8r Server → Select the Gateway → Config → RAN → Edit → Disable eNodeB DHCP service
- [ ] Network Management → Select the Gateway → Config → Radio Setup → Edit → Disable eNodeB DHCP service


### AGW Drag and Drop

Q: File Directories

PROBLEM: Drag the file directories below onto the correlating definition.

directories
---|
/var/opt/magma/tmp/<service_name>.conf
/etc/magma/gateway.mconfig
/etc/magma/.yml
/var/opt/magma/configs/gateway.mconfig
/etc/magma/templates/<service_name>.conf.template
/etc/magma/

correlating definition
---|
location of default configurations and templates for all services
main file that contains the configuration for all services, as exposed via the Orc8r API
For gateways connected to an orchestrator, the configuration from Orc8r is periodically streamed to the gateway and written here. This streamed config takes precedence over `/etc/magma/gateway.mconfig`.
Service configuration file, in YAML format. These configurations are local and are not exposed through the API. These include logging level, local network interface names, etc.
This contains the structured template for the `<service_name>.conf` file used as input to some services, such as Control-proxy, Dnsd, MME and Redis.
The configuration file read by some services, such as Control-proxy, Dnsd, MME and Redis, at start-up. This file is generated by mapping the configuration values from `gateway.mconfig` and `<service.yml>` to the template defined in `<service_name>.conf.template`.

### Orc8r Questions

Q: Which of the following does the Orc8r support?
- [ ] Metrics querying via Prometheus and Grafana
- [ ] Event and log aggregation via Fluentd and Elasticsearch Kibana
- [ ] Config streaming for gateways, subscribers, policies, etc.
- [ ] Device state reporting (metrics + status)
- [ ] All of the above

Q: What is the Kubernetes command to list all pods running in production on the Orc8r?
- [ ] kubectl config view
- [ ] kubectl -n orc8r get pods
- [ ] kubetctl get services
- [ ] kubetctl get pv

Q: Which URL should you use to access the Swagger API UI if you are on Magma v1.4?
- [ ] https://api.yoursubdomain.yourdomain.com/swagger-api/ui
- [ ] https://api.yoursubdomain.yourdomain.com/api/ui-v1
- [ ] https://api.yoursubdomain.yourdomain.com/apidocs/v1/
- [ ] https://api.yoursubdomain.yourdomain.com/swagger/v5/ui


### Orc8r Drag and Drop

Q: API request

PROBLEM: What are the steps to trigger the Swagger UI to create an API request? (Drag and drop the black boxes to the corresponding command)

command | step
---|---
Click on the API trigger action button e.g. GET, PUT, DELETE etc. | 2
Put in the required inputs and click execute. | 4
Click on try it out button on the right hand side. | 3
Open Swagger UI, then go to section your are interested in, e.g. EnodeBs. | 1

Q: Orc8r services

PROBLEM: Match each Orc8r service and component to its definition. (Drag and drop the black boxes to the corresponding definition)

Orc8r service
---|
accessd
tenants
analytics
ctraced
state
obsidian
metricsd
dispatcher

definition | service
---|---
stores, manages and verifies operator identity objects and their rights to access (read/write) entities | accessd
provides CRUD interface for managing NMS tenants. | tenants
verifies API request access control and reverse proxies requests to Orchestrator services with the appropriate API handlers | obsidian
maintains SyncRPC connections (HTTP2 bidirectional streams) with gateways | dispatcher
collects runtime metrics from gateways and Orchestrator services | metricsd
handles gateway call traces, exposing this functionality via a CRUD API | ctraced
maintains reported state from devices in the network | state
periodically fetches and aggregates metrics for all deployed Orchestrator modules, exporting the aggregations to Prometheus | analytics

Q: Certificates

PROBLEM: Drag and drop the certificate name to the purpose of each certificate below.

certificates
---|
Fluentd Certificate (fluentd.key, fluentd.pem)
Admin Certificate (admin_operator.key.pem, admin_operator.pem)
Bootstrapper Key (bootstrapper.key)
Controller Certificate (controller.key, controller.crt)
Certifier Certificate (certifier.key, certifier.pem)

purpose
---|
Orc8r's server-validation certifcate, signed by rootCA.pem
admin operator certificates for full access to northbound interface
Allowing gateways to securely send logs
Orc8r's client-validation certificate (root of trust)
Private key for controller's bootstrapper service, used in gateway bootstrapping challenges

### NMS Questions

Q: Which of the following paths in NMS will allow you to reboot a managed enodeB?
- [ ] Call Tracing → Start a new Trace → Reboot
- [ ] Equipment → eNodeB Tab → Select the eNB serial number → Reboot
- [ ] Traffic → edit → COMMANDS tab → Reboot
- [ ] Traffic → select → COMMANDS tab → Reboot

Q: What information can you configure for a subscriber in NMS?
- [ ] Subscriber Name
- [ ] Device Type
- [ ] Auth Key
- [ ] Auth OPC
- [ ] Service
- [ ] Data Plan
- [ ] Active APNs
- [ ] Inactive APNs
- [ ] Active Policies

Q: How do you configure an APN in NMS?
- [ ] Equipment → AGW → APN
- [ ] Network → APNs → Create New APN
- [ ] Traffic → APNs → Create New APN
- [ ] Network → Policies → Create New → APN

Q: What is the path to configure alerts in NMS?
- [ ] NMS UI → Alerts → Alert Rules → +
- [ ] NMS UI → Alerts → +
- [ ] NMS UI → Alerts → Receivers → +
- [ ] NMS UI → Equipment → Alerts → +

Q: Which alert channel(s) does NMS support?
- [ ] Slack
- [ ] Email
- [ ] Webhook
- [ ] Discord
